money power respect sex these are the
things that motivate people in politics
in their careers in education and in
life in this video we're mostly talking
about money although why she power and
sex are also involved and we are
criticizing not for the first time in
this channel DXE direct action
everywhere I have a little playlist of
videos criticizing DXE although I'm also
gonna put in some comments about a
Canadian organization many of you will
not have heard of before
so look guys if you are regular view on
this channel you may have noticed that
in a couple of my videos talking about
DXE I actually mentioned their budget
and threw up some screenshots of an
alleged budget they posted the Internet
and I've mentioned with them several
times they do not engage in transparent
accounting or publicly accountable
I can't think the way most charities do
in the United States if a charity's
budget is over a certain threshold they
are obliged to post form 990 public I
believe that's the correct number
IRS Form 990 and this breaks down for
you to some extent where their money
comes from where it goes now so for
example a very large vegan shamp charity
like People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals petaa or as some of you like to
say PETA
totally different organizations there
are two completely different
organizations don't get them confused
hey my preferred pronunciation is Petta
you know if you go through petaa's form
990 their their public accounting
exercise it is quite easy for them to be
opaque to obfuscate to conceal from you
exactly what that form is supposed to
reveal they can pay large amounts of
money to a consultant to an outside firm
and then have them spend the money where
it's really being spent and then all
they report to you is how much was sent
to that consultancy or and so on with
other kinds of firms where they have
middlemen handling things so it tells
you some things but not others and yes I
have been through
Etta's finances there publicly stated
finances in detail but it has been
impossible to do that with the right
action everywhere and for years for many
years since I started this channel I've
been asking to see the finances for DXE
for direct action everywhere because I
want to learn from them I want to learn
from their success or their failure I
mean in some ways they're very
successful organization and in some ways
they're a disaster discover I don't mind
a lot
go back with nothing suddenly as you see
we do not live in a Puff Daddy style
mansion where this should be happening
and uh you know separate wing nobody in
the West no anyway so um direct action
everywhere look the main thing they're
known for is this screenshot I'll put on
screen now is pitching a fit is throwing
tantrums in public
this is Priya and Priya is the
girlfriend I don't know if they're
married I think they were just
boyfriend/girlfriend of the
self-appointed dictator for life Wayans
young Wayne Siong has repeatedly let's
say he's refused to step down he's
refused to comply with a democratic
process that he invented for DXE they
were supposed to be democratic and
transparent they were supposed to be a
fully horizontal organization and over
time all of those pretenses disappeared
and it emerged that Wayne was just gonna
remain self-appointed dictator for life
and that any way any pretense of being
horizontal democratic or accountable was
gonna disappear but we stole the
question of their finances and as I say
I'm not I'm not just interested in
finances to criticize them I'm
interested look at the most successful
vegan organizations whether that's
people for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals or anybody else like whether or
not I agree with them or disagree with
them learning from their mistakes and
also learning from what is they're doing
right but things have changed with the
XE over time progressively what they
were founded on was this ethic of
disruption and this is the meaning of
disruption disruption is Priya running
into a butcher shop and tearfully
yelling that she wants the butcher to
kill her instead of the pigs right
disruption means them literally running
onto a baseball field trying to disrupt
the baseball game because people are
eating hot dogs or they're watching the
baseball game baseball's not vegan or
whatever right I've played film close to
this
they ran onto the podium and interrupted
Bernie Sanders during his rally they ran
onto the podium and tried to dropped
Hillary Clinton they have a lot and
guess what they get beaten up by the
cops and arrested and hauled off i've
played video clips of that before to
check out the playlist if you if you
want to see those videos but you know
with time they have more and more
shifted towards the type of activism
that gets them donations and this is a
profound sense in which money perverts
the I don't know political process is
what you're doing is it real politicking
or are you really just providing a kind
of entertainment for your donors a kind
of service to solicit support and you
can slip from one paradigm to the other
without even recognizing that you're
slipping all right so what do we got on
screen here
Gwen jacooz Ben I'm I'm I'm really not
attempting to pronounce your name
correctly I apologize as someone with a
hard to pronounce name because one
person the hard pronounce name to the
other she says I agree with Kathy and
find this to be incredibly disheartening
not to mention misleading you're asking
for donations to rescue hundreds of
animals but less than 25% of the money
raised is going towards animal care as
someone who runs a large sanctuary I
know that even rescuing one life can
mean thousands of thousands of dollars
in their lifetime especially if they
have unique medical needs so with time
this is my hypothesis I've never had
anyone say I was wrong I've discussed
this with past and present members
direct action everywhere their original
modus operandi was disruption but
disruption does not get donations the
way this sanctuary Act does so they
rescue animals they put them in
sanctuaries and then they have a big red
button on the screen saying donate now
and it's dramatic it pulls the people's
heartstrings
now let's face it if people make
donations for disruption they don't know
where the money's going what are you
paying for are you paying for lawyers to
get these people out of jail I mean well
you know what are the equipment costs
that you're paying for if you're paying
for Priya
to run into a Chipotle and scream it's
not meat it's violence if you're paying
for it to run into a butcher shop and
tell the butcher to kill her instead of
the pigs and then you film that and put
it on YouTube this kind of an act I
believe was not getting donations was
not getting positive donor attention in
the way that the sanctuary side of the
game was so over time they got more and
more into both expose footage and the
rescuing of animals rescue mammals aka
cattle rustling and que stealing animals
because I'm a legal perspective that's
what it is you're doing breaking and
entering and theft and then you face the
legal consequences for that and
videotaping it
then turning to their audience they
donate now to help this beautiful little
sheep or beautiful pig or whatever it is
guess what I've had a couple of
different videos on this channel myself
talking about just how unbelievably
expensive it is to operate a sanctuary
for just one horse for just one
pot-bellied pig per year
I got statistics on this it's
unbelievably expensive it'll take all
the money you can possibly throw at it
and Gwen Koosman apologies because her
name is so easy to Google I did find
what Farm Sanctuary she's in charge of
you also can easily check it out it does
look like she has a large legit Farm
Sanctuary that I'm sure has a large
budget and needs every dollar they can
get to support the animals that I see on
they're on their Instagram it is much
more expensive than you could reasonably
imagine and you can click through to
those old videos on my channel breaking
down the cost the operating cost food
costs veterinary costs unbelievable Oh
in labor costs sorry at the end of the
day it's a hell of a lot of labor
basically you have all the costs are
operating a farm but none of the revenue
because these animals are living in farm
conditions just without a slaughterhouse
at the end of their stay and because
there's no slaughterhouse the interstate
they get older and you get into
ridiculous questions like hip
replacement surgery more and more
medical care costs as these animals get
older and older because their
domesticated animals than a regular farm
and never live into old age so this is
what it means to run a sanctuary
alright I continue with this so
especially if they have unique medical
needs
so DXE rescues an animal reaps all of
the exposure and financial gain while
the sanctuary likely with a much smaller
revenue stream and far greater need for
donations takes on the lifetime cost and
care both emotional and physical of the
animal in exchange for maybe but not
always a poultry grant people have off
the record complaining me about this as
I say present and past participants in
DXE they have talked about this cycle of
rescuing animals and then dropping them
off at sanctuaries and then after that
point it becomes the sanctuaries problem
and they may not be happy with that as
time goes by they may not what they're
expecting from an organization with
direct action everywhere that now does
have a budget how much that budget is we
just don't know
she continues I really think you should
be more honest with your donors and
reiterate that the cost of
goes towards paying activists the one
you know in formal sketch of their
operating costs was very evasive on this
mmm didn't really tell you about
salaries use some very peculiar and
evasive my language but yes they are
paying activists these are professional
activists of their job but what outcomes
can we really point to right
it's mm-hmm anyway gets interesting I
mean how do you measure effective
activism once you're paying a salary for
someone to do what to run into Chipotle
and scream it's not food it's violence
to hold these kinds of street protests
to hand out leaflets anyway um funds go
towards paying activists correct high
rent costs to live in Berkeley Berkeley
California one of the most expensive
cities on the west coast another very
interesting question DXE they do a lot
of self-promotion a lot of photographs
good luck finding any photographs or
videotape of the collective houses they
live in and yes I've heard scandals from
them and no I'm not gonna repeat them on
YouTube but it is certainly strange that
a group of people who are so into you
know posting their own photographs and
video tape have managed to keep a kind
of media blackout on where it is they
live some people might say that those
their their collective housing starts to
resemble a cult I would never say that
of course but some people have made
those allegations and you know of course
they have stories to tell but yeah the
actual housing arrangements for DXE what
they're doing with your your donations
in terms of I don't know lit living in
some kind of block of flats that's
exclusively vegan that they've set up
for them and they're their closest
acolytes their closest circle of
followers one can only imagine it's left
up to imagination both how much it costs
and what it looks like and where your
donations are going you know it's it
this is not this is remain strangely
opaque to outside scrutiny alright or
consider following through with your
claim that you allocate far more than 25
percent towards animal care as we go on
it seems like it is in fact far less in
these later messages honesty and
transparency go a long way and I'm sure
you'd still get donations if you were
honest
how they were used em I was gonna
mention this I might as well mention it
right now there's Canadian charity
called nation rising I guess I have to
call it a charity and their slogan is
it's not a protest it's a revolution I
said before I'll say it again you look
at that advertisement you look at the
front of the webpage that looks a lot
like a protest what they're showing you
in that photograph it doesn't look very
much at all like revolution and here's
their Facebook page they ask you to
donate donate now well I've written to
these guys trying to get information of
them not even financial information but
apparently they're taking donations
apparently they are a charity I assume
they're illegally registered charity
where do you think the money goes what
are you paying for if you donate to
nation rising
what are you donating for when you
donate for the revolution - here is it
for the employees or for the the heads
of this state - you don't have an
apartment in in this case Ottawa Canada
not Berkeley California is it for
research and development
I mean is it for a weaponry I mean the
word revolution has been diluted here
beyond its real meaning
what kind of revolution is gonna be is
gonna be more 1917 it's gonna be more
1949 I mean what are we talking about
here people you know it's absurd but
this this is a group that to me you know
exemplifies kind of the next step into
you know abstraction and obfuscation
after direct action everywhere I think
these groups do see the success that
that dxc is having and they imitate it
what they get from direct action
everywhere is the sense that oh be as
radical as possible these extreme as
possible be as vague in your promises as
possible and watch the money flow in so
their promises are pretty vague and if
you donate money to them I have
absolutely no idea where that money goes
I have no idea even what kind of
political for a protest event or
revolution it is that you're supporting
so you know these are questions that any
real charity is prepared to deal with
and it's kind of saddening that in 2018
the vegan game is still frankly amateur
hour
but comparison - I think any other type
of charity going on
there I think if you look into Catholic
orphanages they are much better prepared
to let you know where your money's going
what it's doing if you donate to support
a Catholic orphanage yeah maybe it took
150 years of experience for them to get
there but we should be able to catch up
a lot faster than this and if you've
been watching my recent videos it's a
great video I edited together from from
shark sha RK it's an acronym they're a
vegan organization and they complain
loudly and often about corruption
inefficiency and I write scams within
the vegan nonprofit and charity came all
right we proceed quote Wayans young
unblocked me and explained why less than
5% of DXE funds actually go to the
animals you rescue so Wayne Siong again
is the self-appointed cater for life of
direct action everywhere we demand that
your fundraiser goes directly to
sanctuaries like you claim it does in
the here's a reasonable demand in the
future we demand that 50% of DXE
fundraising efforts go to sanctuaries
and cover animal care costs or be
truthful that the funds you raise will
not go to animal care so again for me
because I've been following DXE for so
many years I think they'd ever really
thought through the implications of the
fact that the sanctuary side of the game
was increasingly you know the rationale
for people donating to support them when
for them their raison d'etre their
original constitution you know their
founding mandate was to be this
horizontal network of you know direct
action activists who you know engaged in
disruption putting quotation marks
putting air quotes or in all these terms
because what disruption really means oh
what can digress into what horizontal
means what a network of activists means
but it's changed in reality the way they
present themselves now and why people
are the justification for donors
supporting them has everything to do now
with animal sanctuaries animal rescue
and they're really not prepared in a
transparent way to account for where the
money is going whether it's going to
support activism in some sense in the
broadest sense of the word activism
going to support animal sanctuaries a
growing sport frankly people's salaries
people's cost to live
which may not be evil most organizations
over a certain size they start paying
people's wages but you cannot get any
transparent accounting out of direct
action everywhere I continue same
message Wayne stealing of DXE has
blocked me from his page because I
brought up the question where does the
money go I've asked that question for
years
good luck sister his organization raises
lots of money under the guise of
supporting sanctuaries and animal care
but it turns out that's a big fat lie
approximately 5% of funds raised
actually go to the animals most of the
money goes to the organization to
promote itself ah so this was another
issue that came up in the shark video
comes in Publix all the time how much of
your money is going to really support
your mandate whether well your mandate
shall we say how much is going to
support direct action in Croatian parts
and how much is going for self-promotion
and self-promotion can include just
advertising paying an advertising firm
with a large shared like petaa People
for the Ethical Treatment of art of
their budget is going into
self-promotion whether or not that's
that's directly called advertising
sanctuary friends exclamation point this
is your call to action let Wayne know
what you think about DXE rescuing
animals making money off the story and
not following through with funding their
care leaving already underfunded and
overworked sanctuaries to pick up the
pieces I know you're busy boy I do know
but please if you know what's happening
with the organization let your voice be
heard if people want to support animals
and rescue efforts etc etc and then she
says correction the document shows the
first quarter financial statements in
2017 DXE only gave eleven thousand five
hundred dollars to animal sanctuaries
whereas they raised two hundred and
thirty-eight thousand so that's in
allegedly in just one quarter of 2017 I
don't know if I believe any of the
numbers given my limited experience to
our attention everywhere but apparently
that was the spreadsheet she was working
with so here's a reply from whence young
I assume this is from earlier than that
message but I don't know um given that
she says he blocked her but maybe wrote
to her after blocking or whatever Wayne
says we're expecting about 50% of the
gifts to go to fellowships to activists
fellowships not wages not salaries
fellowships got it putting money in
people's pockets
without having them sign a contract
without having kind of human resources a
relationship with them you're putting
money into their pocket without a
contract without really the
responsibilities of an employer and
without them taking on the formal
responsibilities of an employee or a job
description or formal statement of
responsibilities right that's that's
what fellowships really means right so
it's putting money in people's pockets
without even having the formal apparatus
of an employer employee relationship etc
so they're giving fellowships to
activists quote who are doing rescue
storytelling and media work these are
people like Prius Hani and I saw people
like his girlfriend right yes great
people like my girlfriend and me now
great I'm really glad you're endorsing
the fine work of someone you have
absolutely you can't possibly have an
objective opinion book right let's
continue and Paul Darwin pickles mirror
who are staying up sleepless nights
sleepless nights can you can you get
this his girlfriend is staying up
sleepless nights he must feel neglected
ah expose cruelty and share the stories
of animals rescued from hell expose the
cruelty of share the stories of animals
rescued from hell got it laying I'm glad
you didn't do it halfway Wayne I mean
you know why don't you tell us how you
really feel another 25% goys that goes
to funding educational efforts including
the Berkeley Animal Rights Center
I'm assuming that's just another name
for DX EE I think that's a DX II project
so another 25% goes to us I'm guessing
so rate the Berkeley Animal Rights
Center and other infrastructural
expenses such as IT and computers our
sir they live in Berkeley they're based
in Berkeley I can't imagine that dxc is
collecting donations to truly give it to
a completely separate charity
organization ethically that doesn't make
sense to teach it so it seems the
Berkeley Animal Rights Center I assume
is simply an initiative of DXE so again
this is not really useful explanation we
continue another 25% goes directly to
major campaigns again but what does that
mean in the past their idea of a major
campaign was running on to a
baseball pitch during a baseball game
trying to disrupt the baseball game it
was interrupting Bernie Sanders when
Bernie Sanders speak that's their idea
of a campaign so what the [ __ ] you
giving your money - I don't know bus
tickets again lawyers to get them out of
jail it's been stupid dead-ended
disruptive activism that's that's their
mo that's their that's their mandate in
their constitution that's your
supporting anyway I mean you know so
what is the cost of running into a
Chipotle and screaming it's not food
it's violence major campaigns including
providing grants for sanctuaries so they
can care for rescued animals and educate
the public with the individuals names so
you see it's using the number 25 percent
here but it's 25 percent which is a
category in which support for animal
sanctuaries is just one subcategory
it's for all major campaigns yeah this
is so anyway katia writes back how much
of the 25 percent is going towards
sanctuary grants etc how much is
actually going for animal care good luck
getting an answer to that question
Wayne writes back approximately 50,000
of approximately 350,000 in total spent
in 2016
plus additional expenses incurred by
fellows on their own dime which is quite
significant but not cramp yeah of course
because that's basically your own
members are also your donors of course
you know you have people or passion but
animal rights they join direct action
everywhere even if you pay them a salary
they're gonna end up spending some their
own money donated towards you know
project activities okay guys uh money
power respect sex Fame as the world
turns you know I don't expect these
organizations to ever be transparent
accountable ever not ever
I don't expect direct action ever work
to improve in the time that I've
followed them they have only gotten
worse and worse and worse they had this
kind of anarchists pretension of being
fully horizontal fully transparent fully
democratic fully decentralized as a
network of activists and today they're
none of those things and they don't even
have the aspiration to be in those
things today
you know hahaha to quote the founder of
the FBI the American police organization
an organization is the shadow of just
one man I think that's completely true
in the case of direct action everywhere
if you donate money to direct action
everywhere you're donating it to one man
Wayne Siong period he's the self-deport
dictator look for life and because
Wayne's Young is not honest is not
transparent it's not accountable the
whole organization is not honest not
transparent not accountable my judgement
of Wayne Siong honestly is just based on
his writing I've read several of his
articles I thought they were garbage
of course I've also seen him speaking
videos and in podcast type formats and
so on of access information other ways
but I got to tell you guys something
stupidity Israel I've spoken to many
people who've interacted with Wayne
face-to-face and most of them say they
respect them that they like him that
they think he has good intentions but I
don't care how good your intentions are
Wayne you're an idiot and you know you
have not just made DXE into a
laughingstock and is something vegans
should be ashamed of you are bit by bit
making veganism itself a laughingstock
you're making veganism something that
Berkeley California is ashamed of
evolution